  Predictive assistant for sustainable waste management onboard cruise ship

Background
In this work, a data product will be produced by using data science tools and machine learning (ML) algorithms that would help a cruise ship operator to plan the future waste management operations with most sustainable and feasible way. The project work is done by constructing the ML product by using real shipboard operation data and external web source that would give a decent picture of the situation. The main goal is to produce a tool, so I am by no means aiming for a product that would give a comprehensive picture of the situation. The work will be done with Jupyter Lab and by using Anaconda Python package management system, meaning that the coding part will be done on Python language.
 There are aspects in this work: Sustainability and feasibility. Evac Oy is supplying integrated cleantech solution, including waste systems, to all types of ships. The sustainability is the key value of this activity in general. Not only because of regulations and guidelines, but because of the acceptability of the whole cruise business. This part will be done as a prediction of mass balance of recyclable materials and carbon balance of the mass balance. In addition,, to sustainability, the operations should preferably by as economical as possible. This part would be covered by market price data of recyclable materials as well as the carbon price.
Goals and risks
The goal is study how to extract usable data from the existing sources, clean and explore the data so that a usable predictive ML models could be produced and trained with the data. If this goal is achieved, it may be worth of considering to apply and further develop the extend of the resulted data science product.

We are currently installing IoT-systems to our recent new-build cruise ship projects. The risk here is that the availability of the operational data may delay. In that case, we need to somehow “construct” the data based on our best knowledge. I am planning to parse a part of the data from the web. The other risk is that the data cannot be parsed and clean properly due to its complexity into a usable form. Third risk here may be that the available relevant data may not be sufficient for training of the constructed ML model.
Data perspective
There are both internal and external data sources here that would be used. The internal data source would be dry and wet waste production data. That would be derived on a daily basis from the ship IoT-system in form of CSV-files. One CSV file for the dry waste production and one for the wet waste production rate. The external data would be historical trends of market values of recycled materials and value of carbon in terms of greenhouse gas emission attennuation.

In terms of data availability, I have already contacted the ship owner for availability of the waste data. As mentioned, the raw data would be in form of CSV-files. Some data wrangling with Pandas is needed as well as calculations for deriving the actual values. The challenge for the shipboard data is the timing of the availability. We are working on that matter. In terms of market value information, some values are already produced. However, I would like to automize this activity as a continuous retrieval of the information that would update the output of the ML model each time the data would be available. The challenge here may be to find a data source that would produce a single value. For this project work purpose, we may need to use the source that would be fairly easily available.
